- Hello, everyone out there in the live stream.
Thanks for being here.
Go ahead and get started.
If those of you on YouTube, if you have questions, please throw them into the live chat and we'll
try to make them part of the show.
So excited to have you here watching live and yeah, we'll go ahead and just kick this
off.
- Cool.
- Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 218, recorded January 27th, 2021.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Harkin.
- And Brian, we have a special guest, Jeremy Tanner.
Welcome in.
- Thank you, thank you for having me.
- Yeah, it's really great to have you here.
We've got to talk a little bit at conferences and stuff,
and now that we just don't seem to have conferences
in the world anymore, we're gonna have to like drag you
into our world to actually get to catch up.
- It's good, I need a tiny bit of that Portland fix.
I love being up there, but I mean the entire
Pacific Northwest, but Portland in particular.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- So where are you at?
- I am in Austin, Texas.
- He's in the Portland of the South.
- I thought that was, oh yeah.
- Nice, all right.
Well, maybe real quick, tell us about yourself, Jeremy.
people who don't know you?
- Absolutely.
I like motorcycles, I like suede shoes,
I like smoked meat, like Python.
Currently working in developer advocacy at Equinix Metal
and living in Austin, Texas,
raising two awesome tiny copies of myself
and trying to sort of ride it out
while the world is melting, I assume like everyone else's.
- Yeah, yeah.
And, you know, we share a lot of interests
like you and I both do motorcycle riding
and just a sidebar, like the ability to just jump out
on a bike, get away, cruise through the mountains
and just pull back into the garage and have, you know
somewhere outside of your four walls,
a really cool experience.
Like that's a really neat, a neat thing to do
when you're otherwise just stuck at home.
- It's a, we have, there's so many
like technology guardrails, right?
Like, you know, turning your phone screen to gray scale.
So it'll be less enticing, turning off your notifications
whatever else, but the really nice thing about riding a motorcycle is the, the,
the guardrails aren't there and you absolutely have to be paying full
attention.
So it's not all, I'm also thinking about something else.
You're like, well, do you not want to die?
Then like watch the, watch the road, be aware of everything.
And so it forces everything to the background for however long you can
manage it.
Yeah.
That's such an interesting idea of like, I'm just going to put the world out
because I really have to focus on this, this situation on this curvy road or
or whatever, fantastic.
All right, well, Brian, I believe you have the first item.
Something, is this about laundry?
What is up here?
- Constant folding, of course, yeah, laundry.
Well, I do like the little animated sloth
folding something, it's nice.
No, I brought this up because,
so it's an interesting article about constant folding.
So constant folding is when a language replaces
your constant expressions at compile time
rather than computing them at runtime.
So if I say something like, you know,
24 times 60 or whatever, it'll just replace that.
- Wait, wait, wait, let me, did you just say compiling?
- Yeah, so that's- - Like when I compile,
like what is that, GCP, PY, GPY?
Like how do I, no, I mean, this is a misconception
I think a lot of people have is like languages
like Python don't actually get compiled, they do.
- Well, there's the bytecode compiler, right?
So, and that happens, I mean, for a lot of,
I guess if you just have a script that's just one file,
that'll happen every time you run it.
So that doesn't really, there's not really a pre thing,
but if you've got an installed package
or lots of stuff that gets run for a long time,
yeah, the bytecode will happen once, bytecode conversion.
What is that called?
Is that compiling?
I don't know.
- I think so.
But it just doesn't compile to machine instructions.
It compiles a byte code like Java or .NET,
but then what happens is it doesn't JIT compile,
it just interprets it from there on, right?
So yeah, I think there's levels.
It's automatic and hidden, which is cool.
- Well, CPython at the very least has this notion
of constant folding where it just comes up
with your expressions and does it at the compile time instead.
And it's something that I really don't think like,
I don't really think about in Python.
I definitely think I know it's happening in C, in C++.
We got the pre-compiler going on,
but it does happen and you can see it in action
in this article talks about it.
You can use the disassembler to disassemble
a bit of Python code and see what it would look like
outside of, you know, after the conversion.
And so something like, you know, if you recommend
the one of the examples was the days in seconds
is 24 times 60 times 60.
And then the Python will just convert that to
what is it?
86, 400.
Now I'm bringing this up.
Like one of the things, this is kind of an interesting
article about really how it does it.
And the rest of the article kind of goes into, you know,
the implementation on CPython of how the folding happens.
And that's interesting, but mostly the reason why I brought this up
is because I want people to remember that this happens.
So, if like for this example,
it is way better to put in your code,
days in seconds equals 24 times 60 times 60.
That's really clear, you don't really have to comment it much
because people can just look at it.
But if you were to manually replace that with 86400,
it's suddenly a magic number then,
and people won't, you know, in the future,
you'll be like, where did this number come from?
What happens if I change it?
It's gonna muck everything up.
So I think things like this are great.
I use it, it talks about, it's not just math expressions,
things like string expressions too.
So you can, you know, if you're gonna do a, you know,
30 different dash marks to print across the screen,
you can say like dash, you know, the dash character times 30
and Python will just convert that for you at bytecode time.
This--
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
I just checked it for strings and yeah,
it definitely says, you know,
the final result of the calculation of a bunch of constants
involving strings is the answer.
You know, the benefit is,
if it's always gonna be the same outcome,
why compute it every time you run that function
or do an import?
- Yeah, and there is some size optimization that happens
that Python realizes that some things are,
so in the article talks about some of the constraints.
So if you end up with like, you know,
a 4,000 characters string after doing it,
or, you know, I think they found the limit was,
it'll go up to 4096, but if you make it 4097,
it doesn't do the folding at that point.
I don't think you have to memorize that.
just know that Python does has some optimization
where it says, if the pre-computed value is too big,
then don't worry about pre-computing it
and do it at runtime.
- Yeah, yeah, it makes a lot of sense.
Perfect, I like it.
And you know, it's another cool chance
to just play with the disassembler
and understand that a little bit better.
Jeremy, you ever play with disassemble things?
- No, but it was definitely appreciated that the,
It was a way to avoid a little of the magic number disaster
where I had looked back and reviewed a bunch of,
I think it was physics code.
And so often there will be like,
oh, if you're a domain expert
and you're familiar with nuclear reactors,
then yeah, you'll know why these pieces are here.
But you're like, please name them things.
- Yes, exactly.
Here's the number of moles of, or whatever,
in chemistry, it doesn't make any sense, right?
So if you kind of do a calculation, but you don't have to pay for the calculation, that's, that's really nice.
I used to do this all the time with the days and seconds, like the seconds and days, because what I would do is I would go to like a date time, I would say date time dot total seconds divided by seconds and days.
Well, that's how many days it is until Paul was on talk Python,
the guy behind the daytime stuff and says,
"Do you know you can go to a time delta and say it has days equal one
and then divide the date time, another time delta by days equals one,
and it'll tell you the same answer."
I'm like, "That's just crazy."
I know, how was I supposed to know I could do that?
So, but yeah, this is definitely a cool one.
And then the disassemblers need to really understand
what's happening.
Like these little constants, you know,
load const store name, load const,
just get fed straight through this huge C of L.C
switch loop and that's your program.
All right.
- One of the things I want to bring up is that
these are fun little tiny examples
of using the disassembler,
which is a fun thing to do because when you,
and if you're trying to do a larger function
and disassemble it, it's going to be more complicated,
but it's kind of fun to look at the output
as a disassembler.
So.
- Yeah, yeah, definitely.
It gives you that inside view.
All right.
I stole this from you, Brian.
It's a good one.
- It's a good one.
- So this one is called pip review
and pip review is really cool.
I learned about this from PyCoders, the newsletter
and the idea is that updating all of your packages
that you've got in a virtual environment
is a hassle in various ways.
One way is I could just not set,
I could not pin the version numbers
and just install the latest.
But then if I try to reinstall,
it just says, those are up to date.
Maybe I see, oh, I know that there's an update for HTTPX.
So I'll do a pip install -u pipx, upgrade,
and it'll upgrade it,
but it won't upgrade the things that pipx installed.
even if I ask pipx to upgrade itself, you know what I mean?
So there's like this,
the dependencies of the dependencies and all that
become just a hassle.
So there's this thing called a pip review,
which lets you smoothly see all the available updates
and then apply those.
This used to be part of pip-tools,
but it's now its own standalone thing
that just directly uses pip.
So like all good things, you pip install pip review,
which is very meta, and then you have pip review.
And then you can just ask it to do things
like just run pip-review on the command prompt terminal.
And it'll tell you, you've got this version of this library,
there's a new one available.
And that's pretty much equivalent
to doing pip list-outdated.
But then you can also just say, and fix it.
So pip-review --auto, which will just find
all the things out of date and update them,
including the dependency of the dependency of the dependency,
which is pretty awesome.
It'll also let you do this in an interactive way.
So you can say --interactive, and it'll say,
"This is out of date. Do you want to upgrade it? Yes or no."
"NumPy is out of date. Do you want to update it?"
"Pandas is out of date. Do you want to update it?"
And so on, and you can selectively opt into those.
And then you can even come up with a constants file that says,
"Please don't update these automatically.
They're stuck in an old version for whatever reason.
they're pinned to a certain version.
What do you guys think?
I hear NumPy and Pandas and Matplotlib,
and it's all the flashbacks, right?
I think we met in before time when I was at Anaconda.
And so I mean, since this certainly looks interesting
and solving problems, but on my end,
still very much especially for scientific Python bits,
- Conda loyalist both for package management
and for environment management.
- Yeah, that's a whole different side of things.
And Conda definitely managed that quite a bit, right?
Like it's all about, you can open up your navigator
and create your environments and interact with those
in that way as well.
So yeah, I think this probably applies more
to if you're just doing straight PIP
or maybe you're thinking, well, pipenv or whatever.
The other alternative would be to use something
like the Pindabot where it finds those changes,
you pin your version, it says there's now a new version,
and then it upgrades it.
But that's always going through like some external workflow.
And this is just like, well, I don't wanna go through that.
I just wanna right now find the new stuff
and change it or don't.
- Yeah, I tried this out on a project of mine
that uses, you know, Flit and the pyproject.toml
to define a couple pinned versions of things.
So I wanted to check to see if they're out of date.
And I tried the pip review auto to just auto update them.
And now that that pip has this dependency resolver,
it noticed that my project had some pinned
and it said, there is a new version,
but there's a conflict with your project.
So just be aware,
you need to figure out that conflict on your own.
So.
- Oh, interesting.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, very nice.
Yeah, I've recently run into some issues
with the resolver and the new--
yeah, we've gone over that.
[LAUGHS]
Nice, all right.
Jeremy, what's your first one?
Keyboards.
>>My first one is keyboards.
And so I have fallen well down the mechanical keyboard rabbit
hole.
>>You want a loud clackity, clackity, clackity, clack
version?
Perfect.
>>Just like such, yes.
So I suppose the Python tie-in is, first of all,
yes, your keyboard is probably the way
that the bulk of the Python gets into your computer.
And so--
Right.
As much as we would like to just plug up
Jack straight into the brain and think code,
it doesn't work that way yet.
So it makes sense.
So I've fallen to mechanical keyboards,
mostly to try and get my wrists to be less hurdy.
I suppose for our viewers who are watching with their ears
in the future, the listeners, if this is on audio,
I've just shown you my hands.
I may show you keyboards, but I'll
have to remember to describe those.
That's right.
Have started to really love mechanical keyboards
for ergonomic improvements and ability
to sort of restructure the way that they work for my benefit.
Most of the keyboards that you'll see connected
to computers are using that--
are like a flat bar shape, use QWERTY,
which actually dates back to--
Everything wrong, everything wrong that you could do, right?
Are you? Do you know when a Cordia came into a came into
usage?
Yeah, I mean, very clackety, right for the to slow down
the typewriter.
Yeah, but in it was in 1873. And so like Civil War era, like,
back in I mean, within 10 years of the first American Civil War.
So when we were still like, settling our disputes with like
swords on horses and so on.
And just like there's always a--
continues to be a better way of doing things,
and we keep on working towards the better way,
like the layout of keyboards is sort
of a vestige of a pastime with different requirements.
Kind of like wearing pants now, right?
Like we used to be going out and seeing people now.
Shorts.
Let the passions breathe.
Exactly.
So anyway, like what's useful on the keyboards
is in addition to getting ergonomic benefits,
you can change up your key map.
Normal keyboards have maybe 100 keys on them or so,
but they really have 200, maybe 300 keys.
You have modifier keys.
You push Shift, and you're like, OK, now all those keys are now--
all the letter keys are now capitals.
The 1 is an exclamation point, and so on.
And key maps are the ways that you
can take and change those keys to what--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>Yeah, if you want to say switch to Dvorak or something
along those lines, right?
I had a friend who taught himself to Vorac,
but seeing the QWERTY keys was so impossible for him,
he shaved all of the letters off of his keyboard
'cause it was either easier to have nothing
rather than have the wrong thing there.
- That's sort of what's going on over here.
This is a 44 key split.
- Okay, you gotta describe that to people.
First of all, what is that?
- So a company, Keyboardio, just keyboard.io,
has made a, I think a gentleman in the, yes,
Pacific Northwest also made a hand-wired version of this.
Jesse and Kai at Keyboardio made a mass market version
that's manufactured that instead of soldering
everything together and ordering the pieces,
you can just get a completed keyboard, which is very nice.
And so for this keyboard,
you're going to operate largely with layers.
And so you don't see as many symbols or numbers here
And so when you hold down maybe super or function,
it's going to change one of the sides to arrows,
change one of the sides to a number pad,
change one of the other sides to the symbols,
exclamation point, at symbol, asterisk.
And instead of reaching and twisting
like you might on a normal keyboard,
where every time we thought of a new thing,
you're like, oh, the hash symbol, that's going to--
That's good.
--that's going to need to go somewhere.
All the other stuff, yeah.
Well, you need to add it on and the keyboard keeps growing.
Here, your hands stay in about the same position.
But when you put your ring finger down on the home row,
the--
of your left hand, the entire right side
changes to different keys.
And so the way--
suppose the Python tie-in there is
that most of these keyboard firmwares
are written in C because you have
little microcontrollers under the that's telling what key is what to be. But there are Python
portions and so the command line interface that QMK, this project on GitHub, quantum mechanical
keyboard uses is written in Python. Some of the tools that your key maps are sort of
of always in flux.
And so you can evaluate the ways that you're
using your keyboard.
And so Python can help out there to help you make a heat map
of, OK, which keys am I pressing most frequently?
Let me move those to a stronger finger.
And again, because we're sort of home in quarantine,
pandemic time, it's fun to have this sort of escape room
to get yourself out of.
And there's a little bit of a challenge to remember
where that new key is.
or even assembling.
You've got key caps coming from one place
and trying to find out what new features you might be able
to pull down in the firmware from GitHub on another.
And folks are making different designs.
You can go with split hand boards.
There we center that up into the interview.
This is for those who are listening, RGB, KB,
Sol, the sun.
- So you basically have two separate pieces.
Oh, and it has LEDs, beautiful.
So you have two chunks, one for each hand
and you can position them however it's for you, okay.
- Yeah, and so it can open up your shoulders,
open up your upper body a little bit.
Hopefully make your wrists less hurty was the...
- Yeah, well, I've struggled for,
oh man, I gotta do math, for 20 years, maybe 15 years
with RSI issues.
And it's, I mean, it was to the point where I had surgery
on my right hand for carpal tunnel stuff.
And I thought, man, what am I gonna do?
I did physical therapy.
It was really quite scary actually.
And I just, what I did, two things.
I got a much, much better, more ergonomical keyboard
and only use that.
Like I never type on my laptop
because that thing is a kiss of death for my hands.
And the other one is I force my, I'm right-handed.
I forced myself to become left-handed for mousing.
'Cause I use my right hand for the arrows
and page down and insert and all that.
and I figure it's already doing all that stuff.
Might as well.
- Do you use one of the sideways?
- I cannot find a good sideways left-handed one.
- Oh, that's yeah.
- It's so super hard to find.
Yes, I could either go vertical or I could go left-handed
and left-handed is working super well for me,
but I'm using the little Microsoft ergonomic travel one.
I love that.
This thing goes with me everywhere.
I don't go anywhere without it.
So yeah, I think it's an important thing
- That's an important thing, you're good.
- The best way to fix it is to touch your computer less,
but if that's not an option.
So I mean, the other things that have beat my hands up
and I'm trying to be better about are
if you hold your phone and you just scroll
and you scroll some more and you scroll some more,
you can do it with your left hand instead,
or you can try and not look into the abyss so often.
- Yeah, I've used voice typing.
Go ahead, Brian.
- Doing a lot of less doom scrolling now than I used to.
So I think they're less crazy.
- Yeah, yeah.
Robert, what do you got for your setup?
Do you just type on your MacBook
or you got something better?
- Me?
- Yeah.
- Oh, Kinesis.
- Oh my gosh, you are full on over there, dude.
- Yeah, so.
- Kinesis one, okay.
- Dishes, yeah.
- Yeah, those are like the hollowed out,
like typing in a crater.
- Yeah, so I've been using Kinesis
for like 30 years, 25 years.
- Wow.
- And similar, I had problems with my arms
And I was just like a couple of years into my career.
And I'm like, oh my God, I finally get a programming job
and I can't do it anymore.
So, but I switched to the left-handed mouse
and now I don't even think about it.
Some people say like, I don't like switch the mappings.
I don't switch the left to right.
I just move the mouse over and use it with my left hand.
And then also the Kinesis.
And then when the whole like mechanical keyboard thing
started people talking about that.
Like, what's all this about?
And then I find out that the Kinesis has been mechanical
for, since it started, so.
- Yeah, yeah, Kinesis is definitely,
definitely an interesting one.
- Although I think I want to get a new one
because the key, whatever the mechanics behind it
are the wrong color or something.
I want to get ones that I have to push down a little harder
'cause I find that I rest my hands on my keyboard
and it'll start typing stuff.
So I'd like to have it be more hard to push down.
- I think there's probably three things that you can do.
You can either crack your switches open
and put in heavier springs.
You can get a key switch puller
and pull out the switches and plug in.
Depends if they're hot swappable
or if they're soldered down into the board.
And so I'm not certain how that one's constructed,
but oftentimes if there's a greater investment
in getting the board in the first place.
Like the Ergodex ones are hot swappable,
so you can take a puller in.
I have, not in front of me,
but over in a bin, different key switches that I've tried.
Some that are quieter, some that are louder,
some that are heavier, some that are really light.
And yeah, eventually you figure out
sort of the Goldilocks situation.
And instead of a keyboard that's made
to sell millions and millions of units,
you've got one that maybe are
out of billions of people, there's maybe three like it
that are just like yours.
(laughs)
- Fantastic.
Yeah.
Magnus Carlsen says,
he has old ergo docs over in the corner, right on, right on.
- Why is it in the corner?
Don't put baby in the corner.
(laughs)
Just get the, love those wrists.
- Yeah, yeah.
The one that I love, the thing I love about this one
is it has such short keystrokes.
Like you barely have to move your fingers,
which to me, a lot of these really nice ergonomic ones,
I feel like you've got to move them a lot, which I don't know.
It's always a balance.
This one works well for me, but all of these things are super fascinating.
Yeah.
There's switches with, there's switches with adjustable travel.
And so over, you can cut probably more than a millimeter out of it, going
from two down to either one or maybe even 0.8 on some of them.
So you can, you can tune it exactly to what you're after.
I tried yours, Michael, the, I have one of those, whatever that you've got.
Yeah.
- Scoped ergonomic or whatever it's called.
- But it's a Bluetooth one
and I can't do Bluetooth keyboards.
The Bluetooth delay gets me.
You'd think that I wouldn't be able to notice
but I notice and I don't like it.
- Yeah, yeah.
Wouldn't it be nice if you could buy keyboards, wires?
- And then I suppose we didn't talk about mousing either.
We talked about like the actual device
but in QMK that firmware and other keyboard firmwares,
If you hold down a button, the other side of your keyboard
can become a mouse.
And so any of your keyboard keys can make it travel diagonally
or up and down or can be used as click.
And so you can replace your--
especially for traveling, you can replace your mouse
with being able to navigate, move the mouse around
with the keyboard.
Oh, fantastic.
That sounds awesome.
If you could ever fly again, I could
see you setting a little laptop on the little fold-down tray,
put that keyboard on top, and you're
to actually get some stuff done.
All right. Now, before we get on to the next item,
let me tell you all about our sponsor for this week,
Datadog. Thank you, Datadog,
for sponsoring the show. If you're having
trouble visualizing latency
or CPU or memory bottlenecks
in your apps and you're not sure where it's coming from
or how to solve it, check out Datadog.
They seamlessly correlate logs
and traces across individual
requests, and you can quickly troubleshoot
your Python app. Plus, their continuous
profiler allows you to find
find the most memory and CPU consuming parts
of your production code continuously,
just run it all the time, minimum overhead, pretty awesome.
So be the hero that got that app back on track
at your company.
Get started today with a free trial
at pythonbytes.fm/datadog,
or just click the link in your podcast player show notes.
Brian, let's talk about logos.
- Sure.
- I tried to pull this up,
but we're suffering some downtime.
There we go.
- So there's a article called Reinventing the Python Logo.
And I thought it was interesting mostly about the history.
I guess I hadn't thought about it too much.
So the history really is there have been
only two Python logos, the original one,
which I'm not sure when that came into existence,
but it's just sort of some,
it looks like a bunch of marshmallows
stuck together or something.
It's, it's not-
- It does look like marshmallows.
- I get light bright vibes.
- Light bright.
- Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, you're right.
- Yeah, so it's like white dots
and with like black dots around the outside
making the Python word and then like that's it.
And apparently that,
that passed for a while.
And then the current logo came into play in 2019.
2006 by and it was designed by Tim Parkland and
It's the logo that we have right now
and I was you know, I kind of got the the
Mayan vibe from the Python icon also or the
Two pythons, but there's a quote from Tim
Said the logo is actually based on a Mayan representation of snakes, which is very often represented only
represent only the head and perhaps a short length of tail.
The structure of the snake represents
the natural coiling nesting of a snake as seen on the side.
I don't know, but having the symmetry
also kind of reminds me of a yin-yang symbol or something.
Anyway, I like it, it's good.
But the article then goes on to talk to a designer
who came up with a possible change
and proposed a change in 2020, Jessica Williamson.
And it's pretty, but I didn't really read the rest.
I just thought it was curious to think about,
should we change it?
And I guess I'm on the side of,
I kind of like the way it is,
but I was curious what you guys thought.
- Jeremy, go ahead.
- I mean, I've grown so used to the other one,
But I try not to be a curmudgeon and like new things.
I know Burger King just did their rebrand
and even though I'm not on the Whopper train,
I'm like, yeah, you get something fresh.
I suppose Python even,
there's going to be more people using it in the future
than have ever used it up to this point.
And so, you know, what the existing folks think
is less of a concern if it feels newer or more welcoming.
>> Yeah, if it pulls people in and it makes them feel like,
oh, this is a fresh language, right?
This is like one of the most popular,
fastest growing languages in the world.
Of course, it has this logo.
I don't dislike it.
I think it's pretty nice.
I like the colors.
I like the flair, but I feel like those gradients,
those gradients are hard to combine.
Whereas like this sort of flat color,
you can put it in with other things.
But like, imagine like the thing you're trying
to put the logo on also as a gradient.
and you got gradients on gradients.
I don't know, it just,
it seems a little slightly less versatile.
I like that.
So what I would just like to point out though,
is there are like rules and laws about this logo
in ways that are way beyond
what the normal person would think.
For example, I used to have a logo
that looked like the main Python logo,
but it had earbuds on.
However, it didn't have those little holes, right?
You see those little holes, there's the eyes.
He didn't happen to have those.
Well, I happened to be on vacation at a beach with my family
and got a cease and desist letter from the PSF
because I was violating their trademark.
- Oh, wow.
- Because I used a logo that wasn't an exact,
it was an alteration of the Python logo, not the exact one.
Fair, I kind of felt like, you know,
it could have been a little nicer
rather than a, you know, full-on legal,
like you must stop this now or else.
Can we just have a conversation instead of start it that way?
- Those are one of those things where if you don't,
if you don't defend it, then they have,
you have a case that you can,
you can start to lose it as to where you're like,
well, you never, you never made a case of it before.
And so you had, you kind of have to.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
- Don't separate the snakes.
Don't make one snake bigger.
You can't.
- Right.
When I put my app in the app store for the training courses,
I had to go back and forth and prove that my,
my new logo, which is approved by the PSF.
I actually had permission to do that.
And yet, have you all looked at what is in the app stores?
They are change of colors.
They are, you know, funky redesigns.
They're like, these weird things
are slightly different shape, like this one, this one.
There's just a couple of pages.
There's like 15 companies violating the trademark.
And yet with these all presently here,
I still had to fight for a week with the app store people
to allow my approved one in there.
Anyway, I-
- The exercises one is not okay.
(laughing)
The one with the barbell?
- Yeah, yeah, the barbell one is totally not good.
They're all not good.
I'll put the link in the show notes
for those of you guys who can't see it.
But boy, it's, long story short,
there's a lot around this logo stuff that is just,
oh, that's cute, right?
It's quite a bit of stuff around it, legally speaking.
- Yeah, well, and you know,
the rules aren't really that complicated though.
They're mostly, the logo has to appear in the same colors
and it has to be visible and in its whole
without something in front of it.
- Yeah, and you can't shift, it can't be squished.
Like mine, the perspective was slightly off for some reason
and that was also part of the complaint.
- And they're also fairly good about like,
you can send stuff to them ahead of time and say,
this is what I'm thinking about doing.
Is this okay?
And you can get pre-approval for stuff.
But.
- Yeah.
And so now mine is approved
and I feel much better about it, but I had no idea.
I just came out of the blue.
So there it is.
But if anyone wants to start forcing those,
they should go have a look at the app stores.
They're out of control.
All right.
What's not out of control is somewhat related
is pypi.org is pretty awesome, right?
So we go to PyPI and our use pip,
it indirectly behind the scenes,
goes to PyPI and does all of its magic.
You pip install this and pip install that.
And it would be great if we could put,
use that as a mechanism to communicate
across teams or companies, right?
One team built some sort of API interface layer
and some other part wants to consume it at your company.
But you probably don't want to put that
in the public repository.
It might have secrets.
it might just be inappropriate, all those kinds of things.
So it would be nice to have your very own, right?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Absolutely.
- Yeah, so introducing AWS Lambda PyPI.
So it takes PyPI Cloud,
which is a way to do self-hosting PyPI,
basically a private repository,
but then lets you run that over AWS Lambda
in a serverless way.
So it's basically free unless it's being used.
And there's a ton of free requests you get at AWS Lambda
before you get charged.
And you don't have to have servers to maintain.
So you can basically set up PyPI Cloud
to run automatically as an AWS Lambda,
which then you can lock down.
That's pretty awesome, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so there's not a whole lot to talk about it.
- Do you know if it acts like a caching server as well?
So can you get--
- You probably could, you probably could do that
with PyPI Cloud.
- Okay.
- It's just rehosting PyPI Cloud, which I'm guessing it can,
I don't know for certain, but so you're saying like,
you'd like to just set that as the global destination.
- Well, right.
- And if you install requests, it pulls it from,
yeah, you wanna pull the public stuff in plus,
like sort of merge your private stuff with it, right?
- Yeah.
- I haven't tried that,
but I suspect PyPI Cloud does allow that.
So yeah, pretty neat.
- Yeah, pretty cool.
- So security wise, the session keys are auto-generated.
(laughing)
- That was perfect.
I'll say bless you,
even though the listeners don't know you sneeze,
'cause that mute was right on.
- Oh, it was.
Oh man, yeah, allergies.
So the security-wise, it says the session keys
are auto-generated and stored in a secret.
The server configuration contains those generated
on the fly.
The Lambda functions can be limited
to accessing only what it needs.
And then of course you can configure PyPI Cloud
to display nothing to non-authenticated users.
So you basically have to log into it
and then you're good to go.
So I think this is a pretty neat solution.
I mean, you've been able to do stuff
with PyPI Cloud already,
but being able to put it in a cloud for free at scale
seems pretty neat.
- Yeah.
- All right, next up we have not just the basics,
but beyond.
- Yeah, so if you've read some of L. Sweigart's
other Python books,
there's a new one I believe dropped January,
that's the month that we're in,
can grab from NoStarchPress
or can give a look over at the URL above.
And so many other books and references are like,
here's how to do the thing, go on.
Here's how to do the thing, go on.
And when looking through beyond the basic stuff,
a lot of it is a look through the Python lens,
but at being a better developer and being,
I don't think he said, but for myself,
definitely like a less feral developer.
And so, so often it's just like that.
Give us your interpretation of that.
That's like, you've just been out on your own,
you figure out how to make it work,
but you don't necessarily follow the community agree.
- Raised by technical wolves.
So, so often when you-
- Love that way of thinking, that's awesome.
- When you join a team that's been
either working together already
or has been in industry for a while,
there's those things that you don't know that you're doing
that sort of make you look less polished,
whether that's in a code interview.
And so when Al goes over,
what are reasonable variable names?
What are code smells?
Talking about like the duplicating code or what are,
so you can write something that works very easily,
but here are things that it's so much,
it's gonna be so much nicer to hear from Al,
Like, hey, you probably don't want to do this as opposed to hearing from a
teammate and a code review, like what is 86,000?
You're like, oh, that's the number of seconds when you multiply by 60 and you
do the, yeah, I guess back to the, back to the magic number earlier.
You're like, well, why is, well, why is that bad?
I, I did the math already.
It doesn't make sense to do the math the extra times, but you're like, well,
someone's going to have to come behind you and read that later.
And no one hates you as much as future you hates you.
'cause it's probably gonna be you who comes behind you
and reads that later and doesn't remember.
And so, yeah, chapter after chapter,
it's just so many things that are like,
oh, again, like code formatting.
You know, like if you haven't been using formatting
and linting prior and makes it so much easier
to interact with other folks
and sort of helps you knock those rough edges off
that aren't necessarily like, this is how you Python,
but this is how you become a good open source contributor
citizen, or these are the things that you need to know to work,
but you really didn't-- but you didn't
know you needed to know.
Right, right.
Even probably things like continuous integration
and stuff you should probably know, or Git, or PRs,
or all those.
If you've kind of been doing it on your own,
you can in some organizations do.
But many people don't create PRs for themselves.
They just check in and carry on, right?
So those kind of things.
Yeah, this is great.
read it online or with the link in the show notes
or you can go buy it online.
- Yeah, it's on no starch.
You can either get like the ebook,
you can get printed copy, whatever you're into.
- Yeah, I think that I was just looking
through the code smells one,
even people just review that, anything else.
This is some pretty good stuff in there.
- Yeah, I love the idea of code smells so much
because it's not wrong, just kind of turns your nose,
like, "Ew, this isn't so good."
but it does work.
- Yeah, one of the big ones that I run into at work
even is a lot is a commented out code.
People comment something out and then check it in.
It's like, if it's dead, delete it.
Well, we might need it later.
That's our version controls for, we can go back.
- If you really, really, really don't lose it, tag it
or something, or maybe create a branch with a name,
but just don't leave it in there, come on.
Yeah, or worse, don't comment it out, just stop using it,
but don't delete it either.
- Oh, dead function.
- Yeah, a dead function or dead class.
Oh my goodness.
- Oh yeah, I'll see that occasionally.
Somebody will rename a function like function foo old.
Why did you do that?
Well, we're not using it right now.
- That hoarder type code base.
- Exactly, exactly.
I don't have a problem.
I just have 23 cats.
It's gonna be all good.
All right, oh, awesome.
Well, so let's talk about just a few extra things
that he wants to throw out there.
Brian, anything else?
- We got a feedback.
I'm sorry, I can't remember the guy's name,
but in episode 208, we covered pip chill,
which is a way to list out your dependencies,
but only the top level ones.
And I made a comment that it'd be cool to have this,
but not have it list pip chill,
'cause I only installed it for this.
And so, yeah, he added a no chill option.
So that's nice.
(laughing)
- And self-aware, pip chill.
- And then just before this,
I was on these Microsoft developer Twitch channel.
So that's a fun thing, the Microsoft developer Twitch TV,
they do it weekly, but don't watch them
because you'll collide with watching us.
So, you know.
- Oh yeah, well, they need to move their time
or something, don't they?
(laughing)
It's both recorded, it's all good, it's all good.
- Oh, and yeah, PyLang says he's been using PipJill.
So cool, cool, cool.
Yeah, I love the idea of it,
but I haven't yet made it into my workflow.
Jeremy, you got any quick extras you wanna throw out there?
You covered it all.
- I think the other thing was Brian's Twitter I looked at,
and it was either today or yesterday
that there was the joke about
the machine learning Twitter bots.
And yeah, if like any of those that can be cooked up,
always a good time.
It made me think of one of the previous times I was in Portland at one of the conferences.
There was talks on Nate Smith had made prosaic, which is a Python for doing cut and paste
poetry.
And so you have any corpus of information you can take and chunk it down.
That's paired with a Twitter bot.
So I went to look back because it's been a while.
I have a Twitter bot that's still running just called hitch_haiku on Twitter.
So every hour on the 42nd minute, it takes all five books from the trilogy and pulls
a five syllables, seven syllables, five syllables out, combines them all together, and puts
that into the world, I think about 24, 25,000 times at this point.
And the machine learning is more wisdom of crowds.
Like I'll get notifications like, "Oh, someone put favorites on them.
it happened upon a good one in the in the large pile of terrible ones.
Fantastic. You have to put that in the show notes.
I mean, funny, I just found out that like there's a bot that if you say machine
learning, it'll retweet you.
So I tried to install machine machine learning as much as I could
and have it retweet, you know, the.
Fantastic.
Like you're going to Beetlejuice the bot.
And then I suppose also on the Twitter front, yeah, we just told you not to scroll forever,
but my favorite client just got a refresh. If you use iOS devices, the Tapbots folks have put out
Tweetbot number six yesterday. - Ooh, nice.
- Yeah. - That's cool. Yeah, I got to explore
more Twitter clients. I'm still just a web browser kind of guy, but it works for me. It works for me.
All right, I got a quick couple of releases for everyone.
Django 3.2 alpha 1 was just released.
So that's pretty awesome.
A bunch of cool new features coming in Django.
You can check those out.
Mypy 0.8 has just come out and that has Python 3.9 support.
Pip 21 is out and that drops Python 2 support.
So that's also good.
One more step away from legacy Python.
And then real quickly, there's Elastic Search.
They changed their open source model,
which is a very, I'm not gonna say it's bad.
I kind of support them in this path, I think,
but it's a very big deal.
AWS and some of the other cloud vendors
are basically selling Elastic as a service,
Elastic Search as a service.
And they're like, "Wait, you just took our stuff
and are selling it to other people.
Whereas we have a corporate sort of thing,
but we have no relationship with these people.
And that doesn't seem real fair.
MongoDB had exactly the same problem.
And so they adopted the same license, the SSDL or something
like this.
Basically, it's still open source
unless you want to resell it as a cloud vendor.
Then it's not.
I don't know.
How do you guys feel about this?
Open source business models are hard.
Yeah.
And it's really hard to attempt to put the genie back into the bottle after.
And so I think the part of that was unsaid was that Amazon said, "Fine, take your toys and
sell your service, but we'll just fork it and continue to do the thing that we're doing."
They forked it with the old model before it's changed. It got in there and that was that,
right? And that was similar to what they did with Mongo. I think they basically said, "We have a
that is API compatible at, you know, three, six
or whatever level it froze at, right?
And then they went on from there.
Yeah, it's tricky.
I think for some reason, Elastic has a relationship
with Google Cloud and Azure.
And so they don't have that challenge with Azure
but they have no relationship with AWS.
So here it is.
Anyway, it's don't wanna go that long onto it.
I just wanted to throw that out there
as something people would be paying attention to.
- But people that use it internally or on their own servers
there's no problem with that, right?
- Yeah, yeah, that's my understanding.
- Sure.
- You guys ready for a joke?
- Yes. - Always.
- All right.
Brian, I feel like being a manager today.
Can you be the developer?
This comes to us from Kate Maddox.
She, well, it comes to us via a guy named Wolf.
Send it over, thank you for that.
And it's written by Kate Maddox.
So, all right.
- Okay. - You be the developer,
I'll be the manager.
- So I have good news and bad news.
- Oh, what's the good news?
I've discovered that the five second rule only applies to food.
Fantastic. But what's the bad news?
I dropped our tables.
Whoops.
Backups.
Oh boy. Well,
did you hear that? Like, I may, I probably have this wrong,
but I think that the five second rule, I thought it was 10 second rule.
anyway,
it varies by age. You know, if you're a little kid and it's candy,
It's probably a good 30 second rule.
- But I think it used to be a lot longer.
And I think that it came, stemmed from Genghis Khan,
or at least I heard this story,
that Genghis Khan had a rule about how long he would eat,
how long after, how many numbers of days he would eat meat
that had been left on the floor
or left on the ground or something like that.
So, you know, probably not good to eat meat
that's been laying around for a few days.
(Brian laughs)
- Yeah, you wanna keep that pretty short.
Is it warm?
- Get the magic number for number of seconds
by number of days by cleanliness of floor.
- Right, it's only 150,000 seconds.
No more than that, come on.
(Brian laughs)
Oh boy, all right guys.
- Maybe somebody can correct me with the real story, so.
- Yeah, yeah, that's what happens on the show.
We threw out bits of information
and our listeners back us up.
(Brian laughs)
All right, Brian, thanks as always.
- Jeremy, it's great to catch up with you.
Thanks for being here.
- Absolutely, thanks for having me.
- You bet.
- Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]